---
layout: default
title: COMOKIT Albatross
parent: Official COMOKIT extensions
nav_order: C-Albatross
has_children: false
permalink: /officialExtensions/C-Albatross
---

# COMOKIT Albatross (C-Albatross)

COMOKIT-Albatross is a dedicated custom adaptation  of COMOKIT. It  simulates the spread of SARS-CoV-2 at the scale of the Netherlands. The activity diary for COMOKIT comes from the pre-generated mobility agenda in Albatross. The daily activities in Albatross are modelled at the precision of a minute, while the default COMOKIT behavior is modelled at the precision of one hour. The atomic spatial unit of this extension is at a Dutch 6-digit Postal Block level compared to the building level in COMOKIT. Epidemiological dynamics for COMOKIT-Albatross has also been modified to take into account  this larger atomic spatial unit. The larger spatial resolution makes it possible to simulate a wider region, and fits the required spatial distribution of activities as modelled in Albatross agenda generator.

# Albatross: A brief history

Albatross, currently in its version IV was first developed in the year 2000. Between years 2000-2010, three different versions of Albatross have been developed. It is based on the CHAID algroithm for decision trees and tables to extract decision heuristics from a national level activity-travel data. In its version IV, the fundamental change is to move away from a single-day activity generation to a multi-day dynamic forecasting systems.  Please refer the following for full details.

> Rasouli, S., Kim, S., & Yang, D. (2018). Albatross IV: from single day to multi time horizon travel demand forecasting. In Transportation Research Board 97th Annual Meeting.

# Model Summary

| Item | COMOKIT | COMOKIT-ALBATROSS | ALBATROSS |
|:-----|:--------|:------------------|:----------|
|  Time Step  | 60 min | [10,15,30,60] min | 1min |
| Spatial Unit | Building | Dutch-6 digit post code level | Dutch - 4 digit post code level |
| Spatial Unit - Area |     -    |   3000-7000 sq.m   |     0.8mil-1.9mil sq.m|
| Social network model |     Yes    |         Yes        |     No     |
|  School Activities?  |     Yes    |         Currently No          |  No     |
|  Infection Modeling  |    Yes   |         Yes          |     No    |
|  Infection Model  |   SEIR/SIR   |         (modified)         |     None    |
|  Activity Agenda  |    Generated   | read from Albatross|     Generated     |
|  Size of area modelled  | Urban Locality |   City/ Country |    Country     |
# C-Albatross : extends activity behavior in COMOKIT

## Reading agenda generated by the third party software Albatross

TODO

## Upscaling daily activity location

# C-Albatross : revised epidemiological dynamic

## Replace COMOKIT epidemiological dynamic with custom functions

# C-Albatross : preliminary results
